# Migrating

This guide outlines how to migrate from `redux-resource@2.x` to `redux-resource@3.0.0`.

### Getting Started

First, install this version of the package:

```
npm install redux-resource@3.0.0
```

### Renaming `NULL` to `IDLE`

The request status previously known as `NULL` has been renamed to be `IDLE`.
Additionally, the request action types that included the word `NULL` in their
name have been renamed to be `IDLE` as well.

Search your code base for any usages of the string `NULL`, and determine if it
is referencing a request status or a request action type. If so, change the string
to be `IDLE`.

```diff
- requestStatuses.NULL
+ requestStatuses.IDLE

- actionTypes.READ_RESOURCES_NULL
+ actionTypes.READ_RESOURCES_IDLE
```

### Updating `getStatus().null` usage

This change is similar to the above change. Previously, `getStatus` would
return an object with the key `null`. This key is now `idle`.

```diff
- getStatus(...args).null;
+ getStatus(...args).idle;
```

With this change, you can now destructure the return value from `getStatus`.

```js
const { idle } = getStatus(...args);
```

A good way to make this change is to do a search for `.null` in your code. If
you find any, replace them with `.idle`.

### Updating `getResources()` usage

There are two changes to `getResources()`.

This first relates to an old signature of the method. `getResources()` used to
accept three arguments, but this signature was deprecated in v2.2.0, and is
removed in v3.0.0.

Search your code for usage of `getResources`. If you pass three arguments at any
time, then you should update to use the new two argument signature. For more,
refer to [the API documentation](https://redux-resource.js.org/docs/api-reference/get-resources.html)
for this method.

The second breaking change to `getResources` is that omitting the second argument, `filter`,
used to return an empty array, but it now returns all of the resources in the slice.

### Using `resourceType` rather than `resourceName`

In earlier versions of Redux Resource, `resourceName` was used to refer to the _type_ of
resource being modified. In v3.0.0, `resourceName` still works, but it is deprecated, and will
be removed in a future version of the library (likely v4.0.0).

You should update your code to use `resourceType` instead.

### Take note of the reserved action types

An upcoming update to Redux Resource (v3.1.0) will utilize these four action types:

- `REQUEST_IDLE`
- `REQUEST_PENDING`
- `REQUEST_SUCCEEDED`
- `REQUEST_FAILED`

Although v3.0.0 does not use these action types currently, they are _reserved_ for 3.1.0.

What this means is that if you are using these action types in your application, then a
warning message will be logged when in development mode.

We recommend changing your action types to avoid conflicts when 3.1.0 is released.

### IDs are no longer wiped if you omit `resources`

If you leave out the `resources` array from a successful create, read, or update request
action in Redux Resource < 3.0, the request object's `ids` array would be wiped. This
no longer happens.

Although this is a breaking change, it is improbable that you were relying on this
behavior.

### Deleting a resource removes it from the store entirely

Previously, it would be set to `null`, which could cause unexpected issues when calling `getResources`
with a filter function.

### Other Things

The changes above cover the things that you need to do for your application to continue
working. However, there are a handful of new best practices.

##### Requests

- "Named requests" are now called [request objects](https://redux-resource.js.org/docs/requests/request-objects.md)
- Use `requestKey` instead of `request` in your request actions.
- The structure of request objects has changed slightly; there are a few additional
  properties by default.

##### Resource Slices

- The structure of the resource slice has changed slightly. [Read more here](https://redux-resource.js.org/docs/introduction/core-concepts.md).

##### Deprecated Plugins

- The selection plugin is deprecated. The built-in `UPDATE_RESOURCES` action type can be used
  in its place. [Learn more](https://redux-resource.js.org/docs/resources/modifying-resources.md).

If you have already read through the Redux Resource documentation before, then I encourage
you to read the new documentation to learn more about these changes.
